Disney's Pride of Rock has everything you might expect from Shakespeare's Denmark: a vacillating prince, the specter of his dead dad, a scheming uncle who usurps the throne. Plus two Rosencrantz and Guildenstern types in the form of a meerkat and a warthog.The official line on "The Lion King," Disney's emotional and visually stunning animated musical, is that it is their first cartoon feature not based on any particular source material. But it certainly gets a structural and dramatic lift from "Hamlet," a play that meets the studio's standards of having a timeless quality so that this, Disney's 32d animated feature, can expect a long shelf-life.Set totally in the animal kingdom, like "Bambi" — folks are already calling it "Bamlet" — "The Lion King" transmogrifies Shakespeare into a story about good, bad and Borscht Belt quadrupeds.A stirring pre-title sequence introduces the Christ-like birth of the lion cub Simba who is destined to inherit the veldt. All the animals of the African plains converge that they may adore him, while the song 'Circle of Life" introduces one of the movie's two major themes, that of mortality. (The other theme has to do with taking responsibility.) Not since Bambi's mother was shot by hunters has mortality been dealt with so bluntly in a children's cartoon.Simba spends the first part of the movie frolicking, pouncing, making mischief, bonding with his lionhearted father, Mufasa — and getting steered wrong by his evil uncle, Scar, with the richly decadent voice of Jeremy Irons.Scar wants Mufasa and Simba out of the way. "I was first in line till the little hairball was born," he grouses.In the second half, Simba's fortunes have changed, and he's growing up in exile. Simba is joined by the movie's comic relief — the meerkat and warthog, given excellent voices by Nathan Lane and Ernie Sabella. With their mantra of "hakuna matata," meaning "no worries," they could have been chefs du village of the first Club Med ("no problem"). They eat grubs, crack jokes about the food chain, and perform the occasional musical number.Because Disney heroes are often so dull — Simba being yet another case in point, like Aladdin — the movie rests on the haunches of villains and jokesters. Scar is a fabulous villian, his features appearing to drip with the urbane sarcasm of Irons' best Claus von Bulow imitation. Interestingly enough, the most erudite character is also the physically weakest in a movie (and food chain) that honors only brute strength.Humor is supplied not only by Simba's companions but by Scar's cronis, a trio of psychotic hyenas — the voices of Whoopi Goldberg, Cheech Marin and Jim Cummings. Scar and the hyenas constitute some of the funniest character animation ever attempted.At this point in animation history, we can expect no less than perfection from Disney, and they deliver. Incredible attention to detail and nuance conveys the majesty of the animal kingdom or the minutiae of an animal's long, clacking toenails. There is a visual comment on Nazi-like obedience, a stunning wildebeest stampede (computer-animated, with great difficulty), and the use of techniques you'd find in live-action movies (a slow-motion fight sequence, for example) that shows a willingness to keep up with the changing tastes of young audiences."The Lion King" is the hot spot for the families this summer. The only quibble is with the songs by Elton John and Tim Rice. While no one can replace the late Howard Ashman, who wrote the hyper-clever lyrics for most of the recent Disney projects, surely they can find better lyricist than Rice, whose credits include "Jesus Christ Superstar" and "Evita." Here, his only discernible asset is that he can rhyme.